# ED custom plugins

There are a few plugins embedded within the `ckanext-ed` extension. These plugins provide or override different functions or features in the extension. All the plugins present in the ckanext-ed are described below:

# Ed Plugin

This is the main plugin of the `ckanext-ed` extension. It provides the main features and overrides in the extension, such as the schema updates, custom actions, new validators, and custom search facets. This plugin is identified by the name `ed` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Ed Harvest Plugin

This plugin is a Harvest plugin extended for the `ckanext-ed` customization. It overrides some templates of the Harvest extension to add collections to the harvest Source templates.
This plugin is identified by the name `edharvest` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Ed Data Json Plugin

This plugin is a Data Json plugin extended for the `ckanext-ed` customization. It overrides the route mapping of the Data Json extension to allow the use of custom actions and custom controllers design to parse `data.json` output routes. This plugin is identified by the name `eddatajson` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Ed Data Json Harvest Plugin

This plugin adds a new type of Harvest Source to the Harvest plugin. This new type of Harvest allows the harvesting of the `data.json` generated by the `edscrapers` data manager. The Ed Data Json plugin overrides common actions of the Harvest extension to properly parse the `data.json` files created during the Dept. of Ed. sites scraping iniciative. This plugin is identified by the name `eddatajsonharvest` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Documentation Plugin

Documentation (Docs) is a package design to store files that contain information about a data profile or collection. In that way, each data profile or collection can be associated with documentation containing multiple documents (resources). The documentation plugin provides custom schema and custom templates to enable this feature. This plugin is identified by the name `documentation` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Collections Plugin

Collections are similar to groups. Each collection can be associated with an `n` number of data profiles. In summary, we created the collections plugin to group data profiles and provide an easy way to navigate and search for similar data profiles. The collections plugin provides custom actions, custom schema, new template helpers, and custom templates to enable this feature. This plugin is identified by the name `ed_collections` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Master Collection Plugin

Master collections or Sources (name used on the Web UI) are a set of Collections. Each Source can be associated with multiple Collections and provides an easy way to catalog Collections. The master collections plugin provides custom actions, custom schema, new template helpers, and custom templates to enable this feature. This plugin is identified by the name `ed_master_collections` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Data Explorers Plugin

Data Explorers are data tools and visualizers from different Organizations of the Department of Education. The data explorer plugin enables the view, create, update and delete actions for Data Explorers. It also enables an Approval workflow that allows sysadmin users to review the Data Explorers created or edited by the Data Stewards. The data explorer plugin provides custom authentication functions, custom schema, new template helpers, custom templates, and custom activity stream. This plugin is identified by the name `ed_data_explorers` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Format Translator Plugin

This plugin is a format converter implemented to convert XLS/XLSX files to CSV files. Every time a Data Steward uploads an XLS/XLSX, the format translator plugin is called to start the conversion process. The format converter works as an asynchronous job, which means each translation is done in the background, and the user interaction is not impacted by response times or possible errors. Every time a file is converted, the data profile creator receives an email warning that a translation was done and the translated file needs review. This plugin is identified by the name `ed_format_translator` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.

# Resource Approval Plugin

The Resource Approval plugin enables an approval process for every translated resource (see Format Translator Plugin). When a resource is translated, the resource is automatically submitted for an approval process. A translated resource is not displayed on the Web UI until it is reviewed and approved by a sysadmin user. This plugin is identified by the name `ed_resource_approval` in the `CKAN_PLUGINS` environment variable.